Welcome back.
Let's start with the section on Jawa platform and let's start with the first question why is Java so
popular.
There are a number of programming languages C C++ Java and a lot of things which came after.
Why is it that Java is the most popular of all languages.
Why is it that Java is the one which is used to develop and apply applications for the big bad.
I mean not all applications are using Java but a huge majority of the applications are built with Java.
Why.
The first reason why I think Java is very popular is because of its feature call platform independence.
Once you have a Java executable that a jar file you can run it on any operating system whether it's
Windows Mac or whatever operating system.
So once you write a program somewhere you can take it and run it in any place.
That's platform independent and that one of the main reasons why Jawa is very popular.
The other reason I think is because Java is an object oriented language object oriented programming
results in much maintainable called than structured programming.
We would discuss these two things in detail in later sections.
I think the two reasons are basically lack for independence and the fact that Java is an object oriented
programming language.
The next question we would want to discuss is what is platform independent and how does Java achieve
it.
Those are the two things we would discuss enough as we discussed in the previous question.
Platform independent is basically the fact that I can build a Java program anywhere and I would be able
to run on any other operating system.
But basically what platform independence is.
That's basically called Build once run anywhere.
So you Billett want some any where whether it's Windows whether it's Unix whether it's Mac you build
it anywhere.
And then you would be able to run that program in all other operating systems.
The question is how does Java achieve platform independence.
Right.
So how does Java ensure that you are able to run your program and even one of the important things to
understand is that the executable code is different in different operating systems.
They takes you to call in Unix is different from the executable code in Windows.
How were the Java code that we write.
I mean typically we write Java code in-door java files right.
So the Java code is the same.
So with the same Java code how are we able to get two different Exupery cords in different operating
systems.
That's the primary question with platform independence.
The answer to that is in a jar concept called G.
Free Java Twichell machine.
When I compile Java code we get something called dark class files the dot class files contain something
called byte code called bytecode is basically a Java internal representation.
The magic of the JVM is the fact that it can convert bytecode to executable instructions in that particular
operating system.
So a Unix JVM can and would bytecode to exhaustible instructions on Unix Windows JVM would be able to
convert byte code to executable instructions on Windows.
And similarly the JVM SAY in other operating system basically the fact is that the JVM is in different
operating systems different but they are having one thing in common.
That's basically the fact that they can understand Java bytecode.
So the Java Twichell machine basically can word the byte code to executable instructions of that specific
operating system.
So Jahweh achieves platform independence by having this intermediate format called bytecode which is
understandable by different JVM.
So the JVM is in different operating systems are able to understand this bytecode and can word the bytecode
to excludable instructions in that specific operating system.
To summarize Jobvite use platform independence through two important concepts one is the intermediate
representation called the byte code.
Your darkest files contain by code.
The second important thing is the Java virtual machine the Jodrell machine.
In any specific operating system we'll be able to convert bytecode to executable instructions of that
operating system.
So even though the exhaustible instructions are of uniques are different from that of Windows the way
J.Y. chase platform independence is having a different JVM for Unix and a different JVM for Windows.
However the common things for those two JVM is the fact that they both understand bytecode and they
can word this byte code to be you instructions of that specific operating system.